docs/components/popovers.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Popovers
group: components
---

Add small overlay content, like those found in iOS, to any element for housing secondary information.

## Contents

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

## Overview

Things to know when using the popover plugin:


- Popovers rely on the 3rd party library [Tether](http://github.hubspot.com/tether/) for positioning. You must include [tether.min.js](https://github.com/HubSpot/tether/blob/master/dist/js/tether.min.js) before bootstrap.js in order for popovers to work!
- Popovers require the [tooltip plugin]({{ site.baseurl }}/components/tooltips) as a dependency.
- Popovers are opt-in for performance reasons, so **you must initialize them yourself**.
- Zero-length `title` and `content` values will never show a popover.
- Specify `container: 'body'` to avoid rendering problems in more complex components (like our input groups, button groups, etc).
- Triggering popovers on hidden elements will not work.
- Popovers for `.disabled` or `disabled` elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.
- When triggered from hyperlinks that span multiple lines, popovers will be centered. Use `white-space: nowrap;` on your `<a>`s to avoid this behavior.

Got all that? Great, let's see how they work with some examples.

## Example: Enable popovers everywhere

One way to initialize all popovers on a page would be to select them by their `data-toggle` attribute:

{% highlight js %}
$(function () {
  $('[data-toggle="popover"]').popover()
})
{% endhighlight %}

## Example: Using the `container` option

When you have some styles on a parent element that interfere with a popover, you'll want to specify a custom `container` so that the popover's HTML appears within that element instead.

{% highlight js %}
$(function () {
  $('.example-popover').popover({
    container: 'body'
  })
})
{% endhighlight %}

## Static popover

Four options are available: top, right, bottom, and left aligned.

<div class="bd-example bd-example-popover-static">
  <div class="popover popover-top">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover top</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-right">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover right</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-bottom">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover bottom</h3>

    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-left">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover left</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="clearfix"></div>
</div>

## Live demo

{% example html %}
<button type="button" class="btn btn-lg btn-danger" data-toggle="popover" title="Popover title" data-content="And here's some amazing content. It's very engaging. Right?">Click to toggle popover</button>
{% endexample %}

### Four directions

<div class="bd-example popover-demo">
  <div class="bd-example-popovers">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="top" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on top
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="right" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on right
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="bottom" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on bottom
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="left" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on left
    </button>
  </div>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="top" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on top
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="right" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on right
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="bottom" data-content="Vivamus
sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on bottom
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="left" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on left
</button>
{% endhighlight %}

### Dismiss on next click

Use the `focus` trigger to dismiss popovers on the next click that the user makes.

{% callout danger %}
#### Specific markup required for dismiss-on-next-click

For proper cross-browser and cross-platform behavior, you must use the `<a>` tag, _not_ the `<button>` tag, and you also must include a [`tabindex`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#tabindex) attribute.
{% endcallout %}

{% example html %}
<a tabindex="0" class="btn btn-lg btn-danger" role="button" data-toggle="popover" data-trigger="focus" title="Dismissible popover" data-content="And here's some amazing content. It's very engaging. Right?">Dismissible popover</a>
{% endexample %}

{% highlight js %}
$('.popover-dismiss').popover({
  trigger: 'focus'
})
{% endhighlight %}



## Usage

Enable popovers via JavaScript:

{% highlight js %}$('#example').popover(options){% endhighlight %}

### Options

Options can be passed via data attributes or JavaScript. For data attributes, append the option name to `data-`, as in `data-animation=""`.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th style="width: 100px;">Name</th>
        <th style="width: 100px;">Type</th>
        <th style="width: 50px;">Default</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>animation</td>
        <td>boolean</td>
        <td>true</td>
        <td>Apply a CSS fade transition to the popover</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>container</td>
        <td>string | false</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>
          <p>Appends the popover to a specific element. Example: <code>container: 'body'</code>. This option is particularly useful in that it allows you to position the popover in the flow of the document near the triggering element - which will prevent the popover from floating away from the triggering element during a window resize.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>content</td>
        <td>string | element | function</td>
        <td>''</td>
        <td>
          <p>Default content value if <code>data-content</code> attribute isn't present.</p>
          <p>If a function is given, it will be called with its <code>this</code> reference set to the element that the popover is attached to.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>delay</td>
        <td>number | object</td>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>
         <p>Delay showing and hiding the popover (ms) - does not apply to manual trigger type</p>
         <p>If a number is supplied, delay is applied to both hide/show</p>
         <p>Object structure is: <code>delay: { "show": 500, "hide": 100 }</code></p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>html</td>
        <td>boolean</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>Insert HTML into the popover. If false, jQuery's <code>text</code> method will be used to insert content into the DOM. Use text if you're worried about XSS attacks.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>placement</td>
        <td>string | function</td>
        <td>'right'</td>
        <td>
          <p>How to position the popover - top | bottom | left | right | auto.<br>When "auto" is specified, it will dynamically reorient the popover. For example, if placement is "auto left", the popover will display to the left when possible, otherwise it will display right.</p>
          <p>When a function is used to determine the placement, it is called with the popover DOM node as its first argument and the triggering element DOM node as its second. The <code>this</code> context is set to the popover instance.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>selector</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>If a selector is provided, popover objects will be delegated to the specified targets. In practice, this is used to enable dynamic HTML content to have popovers added. See <a href="https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/4215">this</a> and <a href="http://jsbin.com/zopod/1/edit">an informative example</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>template</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td><code>'&lt;div class="popover" role="tooltip"&gt;&lt;div class="popover-arrow"&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;h3 class="popover-title"&gt;&lt;/h3&gt;&lt;div class="popover-content"&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;'</code></td>
        <td>
          <p>Base HTML to use when creating the popover.</p>
          <p>The popover's <code>title</code> will be injected into the <code>.popover-title</code>.</p>
          <p>The popover's <code>content</code> will be injected into the <code>.popover-content</code>.</p>
          <p><code>.popover-arrow</code> will become the popover's arrow.</p>
          <p>The outermost wrapper element should have the <code>.popover</code> class.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>title</td>
        <td>string | element | function</td>
        <td>''</td>
        <td>
          <p>Default title value if <code>title</code> attribute isn't present.</p>
          <p>If a function is given, it will be called with its <code>this</code> reference set to the element that the popover is attached to.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>trigger</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>'click'</td>
        <td>How popover is triggered - click | hover | focus | manual. You may pass multiple triggers; separate them with a space. `manual` cannot be combined with any other trigger.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>constraints</td>
        <td>Array</td>
        <td>'hover focus'</td>
        <td>An array of constraints - passed through to Tether. For more information refer to Tether's <a href="http://github.hubspot.com/tether/#constraints">constraint docs</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>offset</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>'0 0'</td>
        <td>Offset of the popover relative to its target. For more information refer to Tether's <a href="http://github.hubspot.com/tether/#offset">offset docs</a>.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% callout info %}
#### Data attributes for individual popovers

Options for individual popovers can alternatively be specified through the use of data attributes, as explained above.
{% endcallout %}

### Methods

#### `$().popover(options)`

Initializes popovers for an element collection.

#### `.popover('show')`

Reveals an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been shown** (i.e. before the `shown.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover. Popovers whose both title and content are zero-length are never displayed.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('show'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('hide')`

Hides an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been hidden** (i.e. before the `hidden.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('hide'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('toggle')`

Toggles an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been shown or hidden** (i.e. before the `shown.bs.popover` or `hidden.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('toggle'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('dispose')`

Hides and destroys an element's popover. Popovers that use delegation (which are created using [the `selector` option](#options)) cannot be individually destroyed on descendant trigger elements.


{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('dispose'){% endhighlight %}

### Events

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
    <thead>
     <tr>
        <th style="width: 150px;">Event Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
     </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>show.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event fires immediately when the <code>show</code> instance method is called.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>shown.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired when the popover has been made visible to the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>hide.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired immediately when the <code>hide</code> instance method has been called.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>hidden.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired when the popover has finished being hidden from the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight js %}
$('#myPopover').on('hidden.bs.popover', function () {
  // do something…
})
{% endhighlight %}

Commit message:

v4: Social meta tags (#20825)
* descriptions for getting started pages

* descriptions for layout

* add content page descriptions

* more descriptions, updates to some existing ones

* correct site url

* add social stuff to config for twitter cards

* add twitter meta tags; use large image for homepage and regular card for all others

* add the assets

* more site config

* more social shiz to partial, remove existing meta for the partial, remove page title from homepage for simpler if statements

docs/components/popovers.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Popovers
description: Documentation and examples for adding Bootstrap popovers to your site.
group: components
---

Add small overlay content, like those found in iOS, to any element for housing secondary information.

## Contents

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

## Overview

Things to know when using the popover plugin:


- Popovers rely on the 3rd party library [Tether](http://github.hubspot.com/tether/) for positioning. You must include [tether.min.js](https://github.com/HubSpot/tether/blob/master/dist/js/tether.min.js) before bootstrap.js in order for popovers to work!
- Popovers require the [tooltip plugin]({{ site.baseurl }}/components/tooltips) as a dependency.
- Popovers are opt-in for performance reasons, so **you must initialize them yourself**.
- Zero-length `title` and `content` values will never show a popover.
- Specify `container: 'body'` to avoid rendering problems in more complex components (like our input groups, button groups, etc).
- Triggering popovers on hidden elements will not work.
- Popovers for `.disabled` or `disabled` elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.
- When triggered from hyperlinks that span multiple lines, popovers will be centered. Use `white-space: nowrap;` on your `<a>`s to avoid this behavior.

Got all that? Great, let's see how they work with some examples.

## Example: Enable popovers everywhere

One way to initialize all popovers on a page would be to select them by their `data-toggle` attribute:

{% highlight js %}
$(function () {
  $('[data-toggle="popover"]').popover()
})
{% endhighlight %}

## Example: Using the `container` option

When you have some styles on a parent element that interfere with a popover, you'll want to specify a custom `container` so that the popover's HTML appears within that element instead.

{% highlight js %}
$(function () {
  $('.example-popover').popover({
    container: 'body'
  })
})
{% endhighlight %}

## Static popover

Four options are available: top, right, bottom, and left aligned.

<div class="bd-example bd-example-popover-static">
  <div class="popover popover-top">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover top</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-right">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover right</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-bottom">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover bottom</h3>

    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="popover popover-left">
    <div class="popover-arrow"></div>
    <h3 class="popover-title">Popover left</h3>
    <div class="popover-content">
      <p>Sed posuere consectetur est at lobortis. Aenean eu leo quam. Pellentesque ornare sem lacinia quam venenatis vestibulum.</p>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="clearfix"></div>
</div>

## Live demo

{% example html %}
<button type="button" class="btn btn-lg btn-danger" data-toggle="popover" title="Popover title" data-content="And here's some amazing content. It's very engaging. Right?">Click to toggle popover</button>
{% endexample %}

### Four directions

<div class="bd-example popover-demo">
  <div class="bd-example-popovers">
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="top" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on top
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="right" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on right
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="bottom" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on bottom
    </button>
    <button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="left" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
      Popover on left
    </button>
  </div>
</div>

{% highlight html %}
<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="top" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on top
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="right" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on right
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="bottom" data-content="Vivamus
sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on bottom
</button>

<button type="button" class="btn btn-secondary" data-container="body" data-toggle="popover" data-placement="left" data-content="Vivamus sagittis lacus vel augue laoreet rutrum faucibus.">
  Popover on left
</button>
{% endhighlight %}

### Dismiss on next click

Use the `focus` trigger to dismiss popovers on the next click that the user makes.

{% callout danger %}
#### Specific markup required for dismiss-on-next-click

For proper cross-browser and cross-platform behavior, you must use the `<a>` tag, _not_ the `<button>` tag, and you also must include a [`tabindex`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#tabindex) attribute.
{% endcallout %}

{% example html %}
<a tabindex="0" class="btn btn-lg btn-danger" role="button" data-toggle="popover" data-trigger="focus" title="Dismissible popover" data-content="And here's some amazing content. It's very engaging. Right?">Dismissible popover</a>
{% endexample %}

{% highlight js %}
$('.popover-dismiss').popover({
  trigger: 'focus'
})
{% endhighlight %}



## Usage

Enable popovers via JavaScript:

{% highlight js %}$('#example').popover(options){% endhighlight %}

### Options

Options can be passed via data attributes or JavaScript. For data attributes, append the option name to `data-`, as in `data-animation=""`.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th style="width: 100px;">Name</th>
        <th style="width: 100px;">Type</th>
        <th style="width: 50px;">Default</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>animation</td>
        <td>boolean</td>
        <td>true</td>
        <td>Apply a CSS fade transition to the popover</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>container</td>
        <td>string | false</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>
          <p>Appends the popover to a specific element. Example: <code>container: 'body'</code>. This option is particularly useful in that it allows you to position the popover in the flow of the document near the triggering element - which will prevent the popover from floating away from the triggering element during a window resize.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>content</td>
        <td>string | element | function</td>
        <td>''</td>
        <td>
          <p>Default content value if <code>data-content</code> attribute isn't present.</p>
          <p>If a function is given, it will be called with its <code>this</code> reference set to the element that the popover is attached to.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>delay</td>
        <td>number | object</td>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>
         <p>Delay showing and hiding the popover (ms) - does not apply to manual trigger type</p>
         <p>If a number is supplied, delay is applied to both hide/show</p>
         <p>Object structure is: <code>delay: { "show": 500, "hide": 100 }</code></p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>html</td>
        <td>boolean</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>Insert HTML into the popover. If false, jQuery's <code>text</code> method will be used to insert content into the DOM. Use text if you're worried about XSS attacks.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>placement</td>
        <td>string | function</td>
        <td>'right'</td>
        <td>
          <p>How to position the popover - top | bottom | left | right | auto.<br>When "auto" is specified, it will dynamically reorient the popover. For example, if placement is "auto left", the popover will display to the left when possible, otherwise it will display right.</p>
          <p>When a function is used to determine the placement, it is called with the popover DOM node as its first argument and the triggering element DOM node as its second. The <code>this</code> context is set to the popover instance.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>selector</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>If a selector is provided, popover objects will be delegated to the specified targets. In practice, this is used to enable dynamic HTML content to have popovers added. See <a href="https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/4215">this</a> and <a href="http://jsbin.com/zopod/1/edit">an informative example</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>template</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td><code>'&lt;div class="popover" role="tooltip"&gt;&lt;div class="popover-arrow"&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;h3 class="popover-title"&gt;&lt;/h3&gt;&lt;div class="popover-content"&gt;&lt;/div&gt;&lt;/div&gt;'</code></td>
        <td>
          <p>Base HTML to use when creating the popover.</p>
          <p>The popover's <code>title</code> will be injected into the <code>.popover-title</code>.</p>
          <p>The popover's <code>content</code> will be injected into the <code>.popover-content</code>.</p>
          <p><code>.popover-arrow</code> will become the popover's arrow.</p>
          <p>The outermost wrapper element should have the <code>.popover</code> class.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>title</td>
        <td>string | element | function</td>
        <td>''</td>
        <td>
          <p>Default title value if <code>title</code> attribute isn't present.</p>
          <p>If a function is given, it will be called with its <code>this</code> reference set to the element that the popover is attached to.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>trigger</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>'click'</td>
        <td>How popover is triggered - click | hover | focus | manual. You may pass multiple triggers; separate them with a space. `manual` cannot be combined with any other trigger.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>constraints</td>
        <td>Array</td>
        <td>'hover focus'</td>
        <td>An array of constraints - passed through to Tether. For more information refer to Tether's <a href="http://github.hubspot.com/tether/#constraints">constraint docs</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>offset</td>
        <td>string</td>
        <td>'0 0'</td>
        <td>Offset of the popover relative to its target. For more information refer to Tether's <a href="http://github.hubspot.com/tether/#offset">offset docs</a>.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% callout info %}
#### Data attributes for individual popovers

Options for individual popovers can alternatively be specified through the use of data attributes, as explained above.
{% endcallout %}

### Methods

#### `$().popover(options)`

Initializes popovers for an element collection.

#### `.popover('show')`

Reveals an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been shown** (i.e. before the `shown.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover. Popovers whose both title and content are zero-length are never displayed.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('show'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('hide')`

Hides an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been hidden** (i.e. before the `hidden.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('hide'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('toggle')`

Toggles an element's popover. **Returns to the caller before the popover has actually been shown or hidden** (i.e. before the `shown.bs.popover` or `hidden.bs.popover` event occurs). This is considered a "manual" triggering of the popover.

{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('toggle'){% endhighlight %}

#### `.popover('dispose')`

Hides and destroys an element's popover. Popovers that use delegation (which are created using [the `selector` option](#options)) cannot be individually destroyed on descendant trigger elements.


{% highlight js %}$('#element').popover('dispose'){% endhighlight %}

### Events

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered table-striped">
    <thead>
     <tr>
        <th style="width: 150px;">Event Type</th>
        <th>Description</th>
     </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>show.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event fires immediately when the <code>show</code> instance method is called.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>shown.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired when the popover has been made visible to the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>hide.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired immediately when the <code>hide</code> instance method has been called.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>hidden.bs.popover</td>
        <td>This event is fired when the popover has finished being hidden from the user (will wait for CSS transitions to complete).</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

{% highlight js %}
$('#myPopover').on('hidden.bs.popover', function () {
  // do something…
})
{% endhighlight %}
