README.md, before:

# [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)

[![Slack](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com/badge.svg)](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com)
![Bower version](https://img.shields.io/bower/v/bootstrap.svg)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bootstrap.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bootstrap)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/twbs/bootstrap/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/twbs/bootstrap)
[![devDependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/twbs/bootstrap.svg)](https://david-dm.org/twbs/bootstrap#info=devDependencies)
[![Selenium Test Status](https://saucelabs.com/browser-matrix/bootstrap.svg)](https://saucelabs.com/u/bootstrap)

Bootstrap is a sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web development, created by [Mark Otto](https://twitter.com/mdo) and [Jacob Thornton](https://twitter.com/fat), and maintained by the [core team](https://github.com/orgs/twbs/people) with the massive support and involvement of the community.

To get started, check out <http://getbootstrap.com>!

## Table of contents

- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Community](#community)
- [Versioning](#versioning)
- [Creators](#creators)
- [Copyright and license](#copyright-and-license)

## Quick start

Several quick start options are available:

- [Download the latest release](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/archive/v4.0.0-alpha.zip).
- Clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap.git`.
- Install with [Bower](http://bower.io): `bower install bootstrap`.
- Install with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com): `npm install bootstrap`.
- Install with [Meteor](https://www.meteor.com): `meteor add twbs:bootstrap`.
- Install with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org): `composer require twbs/bootstrap`.
- Install with [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org): CSS: `Install-Package bootstrap -Pre` Sass: `Install-Package bootstrap.sass -Pre` (`-Pre` is only required until Bootstrap v4 has a stable release).

Read the [Getting started page](http://getbootstrap.com/getting-started/) for information on the framework contents, templates and examples, and more.

### What's included

Within the download you'll find the following directories and files, logically grouping common assets and providing both compiled and minified variations. You'll see something like this:

```
bootstrap/
├── css/
│   ├── bootstrap.css
│   ├── bootstrap.css.map
│   ├── bootstrap.min.css
│   └── bootstrap.min.css.map
└── js/
    ├── bootstrap.js
    └── bootstrap.min.js
```

We provide compiled CSS and JS (`bootstrap.*`), as well as compiled and minified CSS and JS (`bootstrap.min.*`). CSS [source maps](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/css-preprocessors) (`bootstrap.*.map`) are available for use with certain browsers' developer tools.


## Bugs and feature requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the [issue guidelines](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#using-the-issue-tracker) and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, [please open a new issue](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/new).


## Documentation

Bootstrap's documentation, included in this repo in the root directory, is built with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at <http://getbootstrap.com>. The docs may also be run locally.

### Running documentation locally

1. If necessary, [install Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation) (requires v2.5.x).
  - **Windows users:** Read [this unofficial guide](http://jekyll-windows.juthilo.com/) to get Jekyll up and running without problems.
2. Install the Ruby-based syntax highlighter, [Rouge](https://github.com/jneen/rouge), with `gem install rouge`.
3. From the root `/bootstrap` directory, run `jekyll serve` in the command line.
4. Open <http://localhost:9001> in your browser, and voilà.

Learn more about using Jekyll by reading its [documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).

### Documentation for previous releases

Documentation for v2.3.2 has been made available for the time being at <http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/> while folks transition to Bootstrap 3.

[Previous releases](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/releases) and their documentation are also available for download.



## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Included are directions for opening issues, coding standards, and notes on development.

Moreover, if your pull request contains JavaScript patches or features, you must include [relevant unit tests](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/tree/master/js/tests). All HTML and CSS should conform to the [Code Guide](https://github.com/mdo/code-guide), maintained by [Mark Otto](https://github.com/mdo).

Editor preferences are available in the [editor config](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/.editorconfig) for easy use in common text editors. Read more and download plugins at <http://editorconfig.org>.



## Community

Get updates on Bootstrap's development and chat with the project maintainers and community members.

- Follow [@getbootstrap on Twitter](https://twitter.com/getbootstrap).
- Read and subscribe to [The Official Bootstrap Blog](http://blog.getbootstrap.com).
- Join [the official Slack room](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com).
- Chat with fellow Bootstrappers in IRC. On the `irc.freenode.net` server, in the `##bootstrap` channel.
- Implementation help may be found at Stack Overflow (tagged [`twitter-bootstrap-3`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/twitter-bootstrap-3)).
- Developers should use the keyword `bootstrap` on packages which modify or add to the functionality of Bootstrap when distributing through [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/browse/keyword/bootstrap) or similar delivery mechanisms for maximum discoverability.



## Versioning

For transparency into our release cycle and in striving to maintain backward compatibility, Bootstrap is maintained under [the Semantic Versioning guidelines](http://semver.org/). Sometimes we screw up, but we'll adhere to those rules whenever possible.



## Creators

**Mark Otto**

- <https://twitter.com/mdo>
- <https://github.com/mdo>

**Jacob Thornton**

- <https://twitter.com/fat>
- <https://github.com/fat>



## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2011-2015 Twitter, Inc. Code released under [the MIT license](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/LICENSE). Docs released under [Creative Commons](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/docs/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Recommend using bundle for running docs locally
Closes https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/17493

README.md, after:

# [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)

[![Slack](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com/badge.svg)](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com)
![Bower version](https://img.shields.io/bower/v/bootstrap.svg)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bootstrap.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bootstrap)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/twbs/bootstrap/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/twbs/bootstrap)
[![devDependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/twbs/bootstrap.svg)](https://david-dm.org/twbs/bootstrap#info=devDependencies)
[![Selenium Test Status](https://saucelabs.com/browser-matrix/bootstrap.svg)](https://saucelabs.com/u/bootstrap)

Bootstrap is a sleek, intuitive, and powerful front-end framework for faster and easier web development, created by [Mark Otto](https://twitter.com/mdo) and [Jacob Thornton](https://twitter.com/fat), and maintained by the [core team](https://github.com/orgs/twbs/people) with the massive support and involvement of the community.

To get started, check out <http://getbootstrap.com>!

## Table of contents

- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Bugs and feature requests](#bugs-and-feature-requests)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Community](#community)
- [Versioning](#versioning)
- [Creators](#creators)
- [Copyright and license](#copyright-and-license)

## Quick start

Several quick start options are available:

- [Download the latest release](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/archive/v4.0.0-alpha.zip).
- Clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap.git`.
- Install with [Bower](http://bower.io): `bower install bootstrap`.
- Install with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com): `npm install bootstrap`.
- Install with [Meteor](https://www.meteor.com): `meteor add twbs:bootstrap`.
- Install with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org): `composer require twbs/bootstrap`.
- Install with [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org): CSS: `Install-Package bootstrap -Pre` Sass: `Install-Package bootstrap.sass -Pre` (`-Pre` is only required until Bootstrap v4 has a stable release).

Read the [Getting started page](http://getbootstrap.com/getting-started/) for information on the framework contents, templates and examples, and more.

### What's included

Within the download you'll find the following directories and files, logically grouping common assets and providing both compiled and minified variations. You'll see something like this:

```
bootstrap/
├── css/
│   ├── bootstrap.css
│   ├── bootstrap.css.map
│   ├── bootstrap.min.css
│   └── bootstrap.min.css.map
└── js/
    ├── bootstrap.js
    └── bootstrap.min.js
```

We provide compiled CSS and JS (`bootstrap.*`), as well as compiled and minified CSS and JS (`bootstrap.min.*`). CSS [source maps](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/css-preprocessors) (`bootstrap.*.map`) are available for use with certain browsers' developer tools.


## Bugs and feature requests

Have a bug or a feature request? Please first read the [issue guidelines](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#using-the-issue-tracker) and search for existing and closed issues. If your problem or idea is not addressed yet, [please open a new issue](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/new).


## Documentation

Bootstrap's documentation, included in this repo in the root directory, is built with [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) and publicly hosted on GitHub Pages at <http://getbootstrap.com>. The docs may also be run locally.

### Running documentation locally

1. Run through the [tooling setup](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/docs/getting-started/build-tools#tooling-setup) to install Jekyll (the site builder) and other Ruby dependencies with `bundle install`.
2. From the root `/bootstrap` directory, run `bundle exec jekyll serve` in the command line.
3. Open <http://localhost:9001> in your browser, and voilà.

Learn more about using Jekyll by reading its [documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).

### Documentation for previous releases

Documentation for v2.3.2 has been made available for the time being at <http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/> while folks transition to Bootstrap 3.

[Previous releases](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/releases) and their documentation are also available for download.



## Contributing

Please read through our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Included are directions for opening issues, coding standards, and notes on development.

Moreover, if your pull request contains JavaScript patches or features, you must include [relevant unit tests](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/tree/master/js/tests). All HTML and CSS should conform to the [Code Guide](https://github.com/mdo/code-guide), maintained by [Mark Otto](https://github.com/mdo).

Editor preferences are available in the [editor config](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/.editorconfig) for easy use in common text editors. Read more and download plugins at <http://editorconfig.org>.



## Community

Get updates on Bootstrap's development and chat with the project maintainers and community members.

- Follow [@getbootstrap on Twitter](https://twitter.com/getbootstrap).
- Read and subscribe to [The Official Bootstrap Blog](http://blog.getbootstrap.com).
- Join [the official Slack room](https://bootstrap-slack.herokuapp.com).
- Chat with fellow Bootstrappers in IRC. On the `irc.freenode.net` server, in the `##bootstrap` channel.
- Implementation help may be found at Stack Overflow (tagged [`twitter-bootstrap-3`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/twitter-bootstrap-3)).
- Developers should use the keyword `bootstrap` on packages which modify or add to the functionality of Bootstrap when distributing through [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/browse/keyword/bootstrap) or similar delivery mechanisms for maximum discoverability.



## Versioning

For transparency into our release cycle and in striving to maintain backward compatibility, Bootstrap is maintained under [the Semantic Versioning guidelines](http://semver.org/). Sometimes we screw up, but we'll adhere to those rules whenever possible.



## Creators

**Mark Otto**

- <https://twitter.com/mdo>
- <https://github.com/mdo>

**Jacob Thornton**

- <https://twitter.com/fat>
- <https://github.com/fat>



## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2011-2015 Twitter, Inc. Code released under [the MIT license](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/LICENSE). Docs released under [Creative Commons](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/master/docs/LICENSE).
